[MUSIC]
>> Kent C. Dodds: We're going to
install two things, which again,
you already have these things installed so
I'm just gonna add it
to our dev dependencies here, babel-cli,
and the version that we have,
I believe, is still the latest version,
6.11.4 and
we're also going to install
the babel preset, preset-es2015.
So we get all the plugins that we need and
6.9.0 is the latest version.
And then to configure it,
it's actually kind of small,
so you can configure Babel
a couple of different ways.
You can configure it right
in your package.json, or
you can add a Babel RC file
in your root directory.
Because what we have is pretty small,
we're just gonna stick it
right in our package.json, and
it goes right on the root of
your package.json object.
We'll create an object called
babel with a presets array with
es2015 that references
the babel preset es2015.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
this is where you would put other presets.
If you wanted to add plugins,
you're gonna add plugins here.
And you'd install some plugins like
module alias, one of my favorites for
one of my projects or
another preset is react.
That one's awesome cuz it enables
me to use the awesome JSX.
So, ES2015 is the only preset
we really care about here, and
then we'll add a script to build
our not to build our Babel stuff.
So it's a build script right
here up at the top and
we'll use the vowel CLI will
start out with just babble.
With specifying that out
to directory as dist,
that's the like its anything
arbitrary you can call it build or
you can call it out or
you can call whatever you want.
I like to call it dist its short for
distribution cuz this is what we're
gonna distribute on the npm registry.
And than our input will be src,
so the source directory so we
want to transpile the stuff that's in the
source directory to the dist directory.
You should be able to run
your build script now and
it'll create a dist directory for you.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Pop that open and
take a look at the transpiled code.
You'll notice that it doesn't
actually look transpiled at all,
it looks exactly like
the code that you wrote.
And that's because what we wrote was ES5,
so it doesn't need to do anything.
But if you start making changes, like for
example, let's just take
off a couple semicolons.
Hooray, we'll run the build again.
Then we'll look in here and
those semicolons have been added so
you don't have to write your
code in with semicolons anymore.
Babel will add them for you.
And ESLint will warn you when
there's a problem that no semicolons
would cause so that's why I don't
write with semicolons anymore.
But yeah, so you can start using
all kinds of ES6 features.
We could say, swap these out with import
from and we could change this to a const.
We're gonna need to update our ESLint
config here in a little bit, but
we'll just save that for, well,
I'll just show it to you.
You don't need to do that, but yeah,
ESLint needs to make some changes.
But see now we can use imports, and
it'll transpile those down
to require statements.
That's the default,
is it transpiles imports to a CommonJS.
And then also we hhave
this use strict here.
ES6 comes with implied strict mode.
So when you use ES6 features
then it says you're in ES6,
I'm gonna assume you're in strict mode,
which is cool.
So if we then remove the use strict,
then Babel will add it back for
us, which is awesome.
So yeah, you can use ES6.
There are a couple of other things we need
to do but I'm going to stop for questions.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay so
Tim is asking, if using Babel RC,
would you just remove from the package
JSON, any other changes needed?
No, if you're using Babel RC or
sorry you are correct,
there are no other changes needed.
Yeah, if you're using Babel RC then you
don't need to have anything in your
package JSON.
I'm not sure which would
win in a conflict.
I've never tried it.
You could try and see.
Good question, any other questions?
Okey doke.
Sweet.
So has anybody noticed any potential
issues here or things that we
might not want to have happen?
So if we think about this as we're going
to be distributing the dist folder,
that's what we want to
put on the npm registry.
We might not care to send our
test to the npm registry.
It doesn't really provide
any value to anybody.
We're transpiling this test file
when we don't really need to so
it's wasted resources so
we're going to exclude that.
If we want to author our tests using ES6,
which we do and
that's what we'll set up next, we're
going to do it a little bit differently.
But yeah, we don't want to transpile that,
we don't want to ship that to
people using the npm registry.
So we're going to fix
that here in a second.
Federico is asking since you used fixed
dependency versions what mechanism or
workflow to use to update your
dependencies at any given time?
Great question.
So there are a couple
solutions to this one.
One that's really popular for
open source projects and
closed projects alike is greenkeeper.io.
I was gonna mention this later,
but why not mention it now?
This is actually a really cool service.
You just plug it into your GitHub repo and
anytime there's, it will find all of
your packaged .json dependencies.
Any time one of those receives an update,
you'll get a pull request with that
dependency updated and if you have Travis
CI set up then it will run the CI and
you'll see, my tests still passed
with this version updated.
You just merge the pull request and
you're done.
It's really really cool.
I actually don't use this workflow.
Maybe I should, but I can show you
an example of what it looks like
on the project that I contribute to,
which incidently is Ghooks.
So if we go to the pull requests here,
you'll see a whole bunch of these that
haven't actually been merged because
some of them are updating things
that we can't actually merge yet.
But this is what it looks like.
So the file's changed.
It's just bumping up there to commit
us into the latest version and
because we have this, whoa,
something weird just happened.
Because we have Travis set up on this,
then it's gonna run
continuous integration.
It looks like it fails for some reason.
And I'm pretty sure that the reason is
that commitizen dropped support for
older versions of node and
we still run our Travis stuff on older
versions of node so,
that's why we haven't merged this one yet.
But also if you have CodeCov
integration setup then you'll also get
CodeCov report in here.
So you'll see if potentially dependency
would mess up your coverage stats which
I'll be really surprised if it did,
maybe an update to nyc could or something.
But, yeah, that's generally the way that I
manage it is I use a package called David
and David will,
it provides a COI where you can say,
david update.
And it will go through, look at all of
your outdated packages, update them for
you automatically and
then I just run the validate script.
So I kinda like to have control over
when things are updated but honestly,
if you want to use something
like Greenkeeper.io,
I think that's fantastic, and
maybe I should probably do that too.
Good question, Federico.
So a question from Mike, transpiling into
a dist folder seems to be the standard for
all the webs I've seen.
If you have an ExpressJS server with ES6,
do you transpile that too?
Yeah, so if you need to run,
you need to transpile
anything that won't run natively in
the environment that you're delivering to.
So for our library, we want people using
old versions of node to use our library,
and so we're transpiling it.
And we also want to author in ES6.
If your Express server is running
on node 6 and you don't mind not
using ES6 modules, then node 6 supports
pretty much every other node or
ES6 feature and so you don't have to
transpile that if you don't want to.
However, there will always be cool
new features that are not yet
implemented in the environments that
you're delivering to like Async Await or
this is kind of petty, but I really like
dangling commas and
function calls in our primer list.
That's like where you can do well,
just say function foo
and you have bar baz and boo and
having a dangling comma right there.
And even when I when I call it,
I say like 1, 2,
3, having a dangling comma there.
It's really nice for version control, so
I can get,
we'll show that in a much nicer way.
So, anyway, that's a feature that is
coming that I really like using, and so
I like having Babel to fix that for me.
So, yeah, as far as for
an application where you build,
what directory you have
it transpiled down to.
Yeah, I still call it dist.
I just like using distribution.
It makes sense to me.
Other questions?
>> Speaker 2: So
you may have covered this.
So forgive me if I'm asking
something you already covered but,
the case where you want to
build a distribution for
many different versions, so
you might wanna have one that's ES6.
You might wanna have one that's ES5 and
down, can you do that?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, so
you could totally do that.
It would be a little bit more complex,
but-
>> Speaker 2: Would you want to do that?
I mean, is there a reason?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
you could potentially want to do that.
There could be some performance things,
like if it's a really,
really heavy performance thing.
For our library we don't care.
It can take a couple of nanoseconds,
or a couple more nanoseconds.
I don't know how fast it is,
but it's probably pretty fast.
But if it's heavy performance,
it's possible that you'll get
better performance out of native features,
so you don't wanna transpile everything.
So you could have multiple dist folders or
something for each one.
One really solid use case that I
can think of for having an ES6
distribution of your module though is for
tree shaking.
So I'm not gonna go too deep into the
concept of tree shaking but it basically
allows people to pick and choose
the pieces of your library that they use.
And so if you distribute a version
of your library that uses
ES6 modules, and then people consume that
with something like Webpack, or Rollup, or
Browserify, then they can just pick and
choose the pieces of
that library that they're actually using,
which can significantly reduce file size.
So this is really important for
browsers, mostly.
So yeah, there is a use case for doing
different distributions, for sure, but
most of the time,
you don't wanna do that until the benefit
outweighs the cost of the complexity.
Sweet and again, I should say that
the benefit of adding Babel to
this teeny tiny project definitely doesn't
outweigh the complexity of adding Babel.
But it's kinda fun and
in future libraries,
hopefully this will be instructive to you.